Welcome to knowing your subject in this video you reinforce the importance of reference material.
You will see what happens when you just plough forward without consulting your reference material or
not have any.
Like I started to do so.
Bit of background here.
What happens when you're not watching me in the lectures.
Okay so on the screen at the moment I plonked the Suzanne monkey in a field of grass and I thought oh
that's a bit wispy so I improved upon that and made the grass look a bit more rigid but something struck
me as odd.
I mean it looked like very very fine grass.
The fact is if grass gets bigger it gets bigger.
It doesn't still retain is very thin type Strand.
And I tried different aspects of it.
This is a bit of a taster of what's to come in the rest of this section.
So I went out and actually got some reference material to is to be quite honest.
All these iterations here that I went through I did not have reference material I thought I know what
grass looks like it's that green stuff outside is fine I'll get on with it.
No as you can see the real grass doesn't look anything like that.
First of all the colour obviously we can probably boost the saturation.
This image matches the bright greenness of this one but that's what real grass looks like.
That is still a bit too uniform maybe even a bit too dense in terms of how many strands of grass or
how many blades of grass there are there.
And I went out on a walk today and I took a picture of something in long grass to give me a better understanding
about how the grass would be around it.
So I cant stress enough the importance of going out and taking.
These are some other pictures that I went out today and did taking as many pictures as you can to get
a good idea so when youre back at the computer youre not scratching your head thinking oh what is this
going to look like what what am I trying to achieve.
And I really like this one here.
Im actually going to probably set up my scene as close to this as possible.
I do like the tree in the background.
I love the grass in the foreground and going to make that little longer in our scene.
And of course we got the background stuff going on there as well.
Probably not going to make it that clutter to try and keep it a bit clean and clean of that scene so
theres not so much going on in simple thing for that is I want to draw attention to the rabbit not the
rest of the scene.
Having a look at a couple of other types of grass you can see they tend to grow in tufts so we can see
in the background over here that you get these tufts of grass growing up.
So that would give us a clue of how to construct our grass and make sure it is more realistic.
Now obviously we're not shooting for ultra realism in this scene but it's still got to be convincing.
And here's what long grass looks like at the blades get much much thicker.
And of course because they're longer and bigger they are heavier and they flop over more.
So really big grass does not stick up in the air vertically.
Weeks might do that when it's got a really thick stem.
But the normal grass that are Bunny's going to be sat in does not do that.
So it's very important to focus on reference material.
So bearing that in mind we've got a bit of further planning to do just so I know that you guys are actually
thinking about this fully and not just going at it at a whim.
So there are going to be three or four main items in our scene three or four main objects.
Do you know what they are.
How important are they to the scene and do you actually know what they look like.
So pause a video now and try and go in answer these questions.
OK guys.
Welcome back.
Well looking at our scene itself.
Do you know what they are.
Well let's see we've got the bunny.
That's going to be the main focal point of what we're going to be working on.
Then we've got where the bunny's immediate environment which is going to be the grass.
Okay.
Next we're going to have a background object.
We're going to have a tree in our scene.
Now depending on how we actually set our scene up the tree is obviously less important than the grass
that the bunny sitting on and the grass is less important than the actual subject of the whole thing.
The bunny itself and then of course you got the far background.
If we have just this grass and tree in isolation there's going to be a background something in the distance
so that it's not going to be just a boring scene.
And of course do you actually know what they look like.
Well if not make sure you've got reference material with you whether that means you've got a phone with
the images.
I mean for all of my images that I need for this course in a folder that I can reference all the time.
If I go out and take photos like I did day I make sure I store them in a specific folder so I've got
exciting things on my computer.
I have a folder named grass which in all intents and purposes is boring to show your family and friends.
But it's very useful when you need it for reference material.
So guys I hope you've got a good sense of where we're going with this project what we're going to be
focussed on.
And if you found some exciting photos if you've been out and about or you've found something very interesting
on Google perhaps something you want to incorporate in your Seen it be great to see that do share anything
exciting you find in the discussions.
And I will see you in the next lecture.